hey guys welcome to my channel my name
is Dora and today's video is going to
show you the easiest way to connect a
Google Analytics account to your Shopify
store now the first step that you'll
have to do is actually create your
Google Analytics account you will need a
gmail account before starting this
process but to begin you're gonna go
right ahead to analytics.google.com and
and when we get to this screen you're
gonna see that we're gonna set up our
account for free so yes Google Analytics
is totally free it's a very powerful
tool you'll definitely want it on your
Shopify account now the first step is
just account setup so here you're gonna
be putting in your account name this can
just be the name of your Shopify store
and go ahead and leave all these little
checkmark boxes checked off next we're
gonna be determining what we're going to
be measuring data from so you have two
choices pretty much website or an app or
both and if you're just doing it for
your Shopify account or your Shopify
store then you just want it for web next
we're gonna be putting in details about
the property so again this is just gonna
be your website name or your Shopify
name and then you're going to also put
in your website URL next thing you're
gonna do is you're going to put in your
industry category now there's a ton of
options to choose from just choose the
industry that's most closely related to
your store and then you're gonna select
your reporting time zone and I'm in New
York time zone create go ahead and
accept the Terms of Service and then you
have to select your email communications
I or I went ahead and selected the first
three and not offers from Google click
Save so that's how you create your
Google Analytics account but you're not
done yet next you're going to open up a
tab and go to the admin section of your
Shopify store once you're here you're
gonna go ahead and click online store
and preferences now here you're going to
see
you know a few different sections and
what you do is you'll go back to the
analytics tab and copy the global site
tag and then come back and paste it
right underneath Google Analytics
account go ahead and click Save and to
make sure that your Google Analytics
account and your Shopify store synced
properly you want to make sure that the
code you entered turned into the
tracking ID and it looks like this one
did so we're all good there but the next
step is we want to test it to make sure
that data is actually being properly
synced between your Shopify store and
Google Analytics so go ahead and go back
to the analytics tab and hit the home
icon now here is the home dashboard for
your Shopify store you can see that it
shows how many users are currently on
and what the current bounce rate and
certain session durations are now these
are live statistics so if you have a
brand new store it's probably gonna look
like 0 just like mine but if you have a
pretty popular store and there are tons
of people on your website at any given
time your numbers are going to look a
lot different the next thing we want to
do is to test and make sure that Google
Analytics is running properly so what
we're gonna do is you're gonna open up
another tab and go directly to your
website and what you want to do is make
sure that a user pops up and yep active
users so this is how you know that
Google Analytics is running properly on
your site and really guys
that's it once you've created your
Google Analytics account installed it on
your Shopify account
and then tested it you're ready to go so
that was super easy if you guys need
more information about how to you know
really easily do some of the techie
admin things behind the scenes on
Shopify and on Facebook ads click in the
description below I also have videos to
easily set up your Facebook pixel and
how to easily set up your Facebook ads
product catalog and all of those things
take under five minutes so please hit
subscribe if this video was helpful for
you and be sure to leave a comment below
if you have any questions okay thanks
guys bye